Dear Mark,

You're probably assuming that I forgot all about your Priscian paper but in fact it was just in my pile of things to read - I had three PhD theses to mark in the past couple of months. Sorry for the delay, perhaps too late for me to give you feedback you can use but actually I liked it a lot and didn't have that many comments anyway. Here however are a few thoughts and typos I caught (page numbers from what you sent me):

3: I would rephrase "the sense-organ is no mere natural body but that life inheres", I think it is not actually wrong but took me a few goes to parse it. Lowe down on the page "biped" is written as "bidped"
4: I would rephrase "In what does this assimilation consist in." The reference to krisis rang strong Plotinian bells for me; his theory of sensation leans heavily on krisis, basically the idea being that the moment of real perception is not the event in the sense organ but the soul's making a judgment on the basis of that event. I believe this is discussed in the classic Emilsson book on "Plotinus on Sense Perception".
5-6: What Priscian says here at 1.12-14 relates to Proclus' idea of "projecting" logoi in geometry (and in other contexts, but the Euclid commentary is the classic discussion). Carlos Steel has a good paper on this called "Breathing thought: Proclus on the innate knowledge of the soul." I think this is probably the theoretical background for what we have in your commentary, though it is happening at a lower level of the psychology.
9: When Priscian says that we get we get only an emphasis, and not form, is this an emphasis of the external form or of the object? (Or maybe that is a distinction without a difference?) I also wondered whether he is in part thinking here of illusion cases: if we only get an impression that is not a form, that would explain the gap between what we perceive and what is really out there. Finally, the idea of not perceiving despite something's being available to sense, like when we are distracted, is also in Plotinus. He has at Enn 1.4.10 the (horribly familiar) example of reading something and not paying attention, so that the words are before your eyes but you aren't registering what they say.
12: I was not totally convinced by your use of the notion of a "concept" here. There is a whiff of anachronism here, though the word ennoia is sometimes translated with "concept" and perhaps one can ascribe the notion to the Neoplatonists. To me, though, the real point with logoi is more that they are a halfway house between forms proper and the sensible form, and this is a standard use of logos in Neoplatonism: an intermediary image of a form. This is also relevant at the bottom of your 17, the idea would be that the soul derives from Nous as an image and thus contains logoi (not in the first instance (quasi-)concepts, but intermediary "images") of noetic forms.
15: Plotinus actually protests against the energeia-kinesis distinction in "On the Genera of Being" though you are right that in other contexts he, and Platonists more generally, do make use of it. Lower down a typo: "such as an the"
16: You should probably have a question mark at the end of the block quote of Enn 4.3.26. In this section, it might be worth noting that Plotinus' worry is really that the soul as such should remain unaffected - this is one reason he develops that krisis theory, since making a judgment is not a way of being affected.
17: Is Aquinas' dismissal of the idea of pre-contained forms meant to evoke Aristotle's dismissal of this (I think he also says "absurd," atopon) at Post An 1.19? In general of course Plato's recollection theory is an important part of the background for the Platonists, also for Proclus' idea about projection of logoi, which I mentioned above.
19: "Recall the logos" needs a "that".

Ok, hope that helps! Again, sorry it took me so long to get to this.

Best,
Peter
